README  by Kyle Sallee
2017-05-04 11:00 Thu written
2020-08-03 09:30 Tue revised
2021-03-31 15:52 Wed revised

In    file man/ascript.7 the license is provided.
Afore compilation the license compliance is required.

In the freedom remaining   ascript  remaining if unpalatable
do not use;    some other  computer language  use.
The    ascript performance is often excessively fast, anyway.

Ascript is   faster than what I can  typically produce with asm,
faster  than any  C program   I have run.
But     performance if not desired easier computer languages exist.

For compilation the following installed software is required.

For the   compiler gcc               version 6.3.0  suffices.
For the C library  glibc             version 2.24   suffices.
For the   regex    library pcre2     version 10.23  suffices.
For the   program  make GNU make     version 4.1    suffices.
For the   linker        GNU binutils version 2.27   suffices.
For the   kernel   Linux             version 4.4.45 suffices.

Newer versions also also should suffice, but are not tested.

pcre2 and Linux-PAM are optional.
If   not installed the optional  argot which require pcre2 and Linux-PAM
will not compile,  and a compile error will  NOT become.

From     directory argot.optional by sub directory removal
optional argot     compilation    is     omitted.

The  make file fragments
from directory make.optional
to   directory make.enable
by   copying   additional ability can be enabled.
However,       files are contrary.    Be careful.

By  the    compiler
the opcode call rather than emit
the opcode jmp              emission if unable
ascript
might     not   work
might     stack underflow.
In  testing this problem was never encountered!

The tail jump ability
the tail call ability
the function  jump ability
or  whatever  named
is  required.

A   statically  linked ascript while not impossible
is  not easily  accomplished.
A   performance boon   would not become.
The performance        would     tank.

For ascript argot loading dynamic linking is required.

ascript is NOT POSIX compliant.
ascript is           faster!

The C library provided function malloc does NOT suffice.
The   kernel  provided syscall  mmap   is       required!

The  MAC, mandatory  access control,
when not  properly   configured
by   MAC;
memory    descriptor creation can be blocked.
In   file man/ascript\ tomoyo.3
the  provided rules suffice.

For 64 byte cache lines
for 64-bit  CPUs  ascript was honed.

On  32-bit  CPUs compilation and execution while possible
reduced     performance results.

For -O3 gcc compiler optimization and close approximations
the ascript source   code was honed.

If   it compiles do not     change  the  compile optimizations,
because faster   or smaller ascript will NOT     result.

From ascript and argot files can be stripped and will still work.

To   other kernels ascript  could be ported, however
upon Linux kernel  provided syscalls ascript heavily relies.

In file man/ascript.7 the license is provided.

Afore compilation
the   directory make.optional/    content
the   directory ascript.optional/ content should  be read.

For    debugging, stripping, architecture selection and more
make   file       fragments  and
source file       fragments
are    used.
The    compilation method is not fancy, is plenty fast, and on nearly
any Linux kernel based POSIX the compilation should be possible.


By      the       command   make      install
ascript is        installed.
As      make      parameters
the     variable  DESTDIR
the     variable  SUFFIX
the     variable  bindir
the     variable  libdir
the     variable  mandir
can     be        provided.

For     variable  DESTDIR a         default is not provided.
For     variable  SUFFIX  a         default is not provided.
For     variable  bindir  /bin$(SUFFIX)     is     default
For     variable  libdir  /lib$(SUFFIX)     is     default.
For     variable  mandir  /usr/share/man    is     default.

During  make      install
to      bindir
to      libdir
to      mandir
the     DESTDIR
is      prepended.

The     file ascript/ascript is installed.
The     dir  lib             is installed.
The     dir  man             is installed.

Aft     make     all
afore   make install
the     environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH
to      $PWD/lib
if      set
by      ascript/ascript
scripts can be run.
For     the script first line
rather    than
#!ascript/ascript
#!/bin/ascript
if        present
with      the      following command
a         script
can       be       run.   
./ascript/ascript  script_name         parameters

The  directory head
the  directory lib.static
must NOT       be installed.

For installation from
the lib/ascript.2020.01/ dir
to /lib/ascript.2020.01/
to /lib64/ascript.2020.01/
or /lib32/ascript.2020.01/ would be moved.
The correct choice depends upon the architecture and POSIX.

An  argot file when loading
a   similarly named ELF library file load is attempted.
For different ascript version in different library directories
the ascript argot exist.
Old and newer ascript can be concurrently installed,
but probably  should  not be.

Argot and ELF library provided functions differ!
By ascript argot can be used, but nothing else which loads them can use them.
For code fragments the final opcode is often jmp and not ret!

Ascript argot ELF are     PIC compatible.
Ascript       ELF is  NOT PIE compatible.
The POSIX compilation policy if different if forced ascript will not work!

The  ascript ELF
aft  compilation
by   ascript argot
the  Gz      address
must be      known
will be      known
and  if      PIE
will         segfault!

As  a complimentary gift my latest 3 books also are included!
Wow, yeah, yes, 3 free books!  But they will not be found in a library!

"Delta Paradigm," one of my earlier books was misplaced, sorry.

"Freedom Paydom" "The Great Creator Emulators" and "A DIVERT"
are the titles.

They       are not religious or  political,     because
to enslave persons religion  and politics   are inflicted.
But the    freedom idea from 3   distinct       view points is described.

For  one   book only "A DIVERT" ogg audio files are provided.
Thus sans  reading   by listen  can             be  enjoyed.

Why I   always  SANS     payment demand totally  FREEly  give      my artwork
if      curious then the books   explain.
In  the paydom  although born    my     from     freedom proclivities persisted.
Afore   where I lived    every   person gives and every  person       receives.
To  the freedom to   go  if      desired      the books  will help.

On Earth   manifest     destiny if completed
on Earth   the          freedom no longer exists.
Frankly    from    what was seen,  disappointment was solicited.

But        playing with computers  on   Earth     was fun, thanks.
To all who played       cordially  with me                 thanks.

As    stupid or unstable or if any person again about me carelessly asserts
afore foolishly posturing oneself, think first.
I accomplished Sorcerer, sdelta 3, xlaunch 2, many other programs,
ascript, 4 books,  an unreleased Pellucid POSIX,
without any money,
without any grants,
without a   computer science degree.
Sans enslavement infliction
sans enslavement compliance
on   Earth     I became a total success.
Why? To what   I accorded importance  I  succeeded in     doing and making!
How unstable and stupid does that seem?  More like 99.98% excellence!

To  all my   detractors, Ha Ha I win!
In  this     life I will not remain  a slave
in  next     life I will not be      enslaved.
The paydom   atrocity    inflicting, confining, cheating, lying, murdering,
retributing, sadistic,   thieving,   minds      suck.
I   really   had         to  live it to believe it!  Incredibly irrational!  Ha!
I   will     not be      returning.

In 5 to 10 years if not again publishing I have departed.  Bye bye.  :)
